CEXT:6270: Enable Runtime Actions to Emit Configured Events by Provider and Event Name (#561)
adobe/aio-commerce-sdk: packages/aio-commerce-lib-app/docs/usage.md

  - **operator**: The comparison operator. Valid values: `"greaterThan"`, `"lessThan"`, `"equal"`, `"regex"`, `"in"`, `"onChange"`
  - **value**: The value to compare against
- **destination**: Optional destination for the event. Must be a valid destination name.

> - **hipaaAuditRequired**: Optional boolean value to indicate if the event requires HIPAA audit.

Reviewer: Accidental delete?

For an app that was already associated under the older SDK, re-associate it after redeploying so the store call runs and backfills the instance data — a redeploy alone does not populate data for an existing association.

### Emitting Configured Events from Runtime Actions

Runtime actions can publish a custom I/O Event by referencing the provider and event exactly as declared in the `eventing` section of `app.commerce.config.ts` — no need to know the I/O Events provider UUID, the fully-qualified event code, or the CloudEvents envelope format.

> At installation time the SDK writes each configured provider's I/O Events ID and its event codes to system storage. `publishEvent` reads that metadata to resolve the provider key and event name at runtime, so there is no management API round-trip on the hot path.

Reviewer: These kind of notes/implementation details are not very useful in public documentation. I'd omit.
```suggestion
Runtime actions can publish a custom I/O Event by referencing the provider and event exactly as declared in the `eventing` section of `app.commerce.config.ts`. At installation time, the SDK writes each configured provider's I/O Events ID and event codes to system storage. `publishEvent` resolves those automatically by the given key and publishes the event.
```

Author: Done 7ea462a1

    auth: resolveImsAuthParams(params),
  });

  await publishEvent({
    client,
    provider: "order-events",
    event: "order.created",
    payload: { orderId: "100000123", total: 149.99 },
  });
}
```

`publishEvent` validates the reference before sending and throws when it cannot be resolved. All three errors extend `PublishEventError`, so you can catch them individually or with a single clause:

- `EventsDataNotInitializedError` — no eventing metadata is in system storage. The app installation has not run, or ran with an older SDK. Re-run the installation to initialize it.
- `ProviderNotFoundError` — the `provider` key does not match any provider in the configuration.
- `EventNotFoundError` — the `event` name does not match any event under the given provider.

```ts
import {
  EventNotFoundError,
  EventsDataNotInitializedError,
  ProviderNotFoundError,
  PublishEventError,
  publishEvent,
} from "@adobe/aio-commerce-lib-app";

try {
  await publishEvent({ client, provider, event, payload });
} catch (error) {
  if (error instanceof PublishEventError) {
    // Handle any publish-event failure (or narrow with the specific subclasses).
  }
  throw error;
}
```

> [!NOTE]

> > To target a non-production ingress endpoint, pass `config.ingressBaseUrl` when creating the client. The lower-level `publishRawEvent` (from `@adobe/aio-commerce-lib-events`) is available when you already have a resolved provider ID and event code; see the [`@adobe/aio-commerce-lib-events` usage guide](../../aio-commerce-lib-events/docs/usage.md).

Reviewer: Omit this, in the end the only ones we need this its us, for Stage. Users reading this will always use prod.

For an app that was already associated under the older SDK, re-associate it after redeploying so the store call runs and backfills the instance data — a redeploy alone does not populate data for an existing association.

### Emitting Configured Events from Runtime Actions

Runtime actions can publish a custom I/O Event by referencing the provider and event exactly as declared in the `eventing` section of `app.commerce.config.ts`. At installation time, the SDK writes each configured provider's I/O Events ID and event codes to system storage. `publishEvent` resolves those automatically by the given key and publishes the event.

`publishEvent(params)` takes:

- `client` — an [`AdobeIoEventsApiClient`](../../aio-commerce-lib-events/docs/usage.md) created with the IMS auth to use for the ingress call.
- `provider` — the `key` of an event provider declared in `app.commerce.config.ts`.
- `event` — the `name` of an event declared under that provider.
- `payload` — the event payload; any JSON object. The SDK wraps it in a CloudEvents 1.0 envelope before sending.

> Given this configuration:

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is a good example since you're suggesting to use a commerce provider to publish events while at the same time we receive them through the same provider. This is techincally feasible but from my perspective it shouldn't be the main use case.
The main goal is to be able to create your own custom provider and publish events so an external system or another runtime action can process those.
Just creating a regular provider (no commerce, without runtimeActions in events) and a runtime action that publishes with this provider should be enough.

Author: Done [01083ba](https://github.com/adobe/aio-commerce-sdk/pull/561/commits/01083ba6e840a869d748da00977270618fed0d08)
